um I'm really excited about this next
one it's a little bit of an experimental
presentation um we've got Mindy Sue who
many of you participated um in the uh
participatory performance yesterday um
you know just as a quick reminder Mindy
Su is a historian and and um a
practitioner you might know her from her
Monumental work the Cyber feminism index
um and she will be on stage with Michael
Connor uh the director at ryome who's
responsible for much of the Legacy net
art preservation that we enjoy today um
so without further Ado I will hand it
over to Michael and
[Applause]
Mindy thank you Aid thank you so much
it's really amazing to be here with like
this lineup of Legends um following Chia
big shoes to
fill um but um yeah we are Mindy and
Michael and we're here to present you
with AI and art best world
ever okay so the subhead best world ever
is a direct quote by Sam Alman one being
interviewed by hardfork about the
implications of AI on society so we'll
be commenting on a bit of that today
without judgment
but but I think voler came up with it
first we decided to do this talk
together because we both made Green
books
um no um um I had been wanting to ever
since seeing Mark cousins the story of
film I had this thing where I wanted to
like make something like it for digital
art like kind of Storytelling romp
through the annals of history that like
really connects with a personal passion
for this field in this subject matter um
and so invited Mindy into this into this
conversation we've been trying to
develop this series of episodes
but the only episode we've done so far
is
AI the AI episode and it's the whole the
kind of original premise was that it was
meant to be like Love Letters to digital
art of course AI being like maybe the
most complex topic within digital art to
really feel a pure love for so we're
doing our best to navigate that in this
presentation do you want to briefly
introduce n
Anthology yeah I should probably do that
n Anthology is a that's a project we did
from 2016 to 2019 where we tried to
retell a history of net art through 100
selected Works which were newly restored
reperform and contextualized through a
online exhibition which is still
available a book which is not sadly
available and then um also a touring
exhibition which really took a
philosophical approach to thinking
historically about net art rather than
trying to be comprehensive so that was
the first green book that you see the
one below at the Cyber feminism index um
was published last January but really
tries to bring together three decades of
online activism and net art under this
very nebulous umbrella called cyber
feminism okay so when thinking about AI
now ai is dominating headlines how AI is
been used to influence and disrupt the
election the US must move away
decisively to avert extinction level
threat from AI Etc but perhaps most apt
currently the US are on really around
the election so here
we but of course you can start to see
the holes and how this has is a
generated image namely through the hands
this was the big tell so though chatter
around AI has really swelled in recent
memory the term traces back seven
decades to John McCarthy who coined the
term and Marvin Minsky who popularized
it noting that AI is the science of
making machines do things that would
require intelligence if done by men so
while it's often claimed that it was
created to help us understand ourselves
like how does the brain work um it's
really pushed forward now with the goals
of
capital when I think about Ai and how
it's shaping visual culture today I
think more about an example like this a
Willy Wonka themed experience that took
place in Scotland uh in which an
organizer created amazing Fantastical
images of his experience using AI image
generators and sold people expensive
tickets to come see this Wonderland uh
when they showed up they were some very
grumpy Act that had no idea what they
were supposed to be doing in a kind of
Warehouse filled with secondhand Party
City kind of props and a riot ensued the
cops had to come and I think what it
kind of ensues is like both like you
know um I mean primarily how easy it is
to kind of remove the gap between
thought and action in the age of these
very powerful tools you can kind of put
something out into the world without
really having to kind of go through the
intentionality that um we've always sort
of associated with image making um which
is of like what's amazing and also
what's terrifying about um AI in some
ways um so in this talk we want to think
about sort of several discourses that
relate to Ai and art each one of them in
its own way is a kind of a pseudo
discourse a discourse that conceals as
much as it reveals about Ai and art and
together they don't add up to anything
like a comprehensive picture of the set
of Technologies which has really
inherited so many different stories from
throughout um art and computation
history
um but the first one is the idea
something that goes back really far in
art history of the idea of AI as image
making machine U the idea that there's
this kind of um black box that sort of
spews out uh images in various ways and
you know this is something that creates
no small amount of anxiety the idea that
um art can now be made by a machine
maybe making the human irrelevant but um
even you know going back throughout the
history of computation people have
actually been very excited by this
aspect of um of automated Automation and
art as well um one of the people I
really associate with that is Abraham
moles who is a
cybernetician um and in the mid-60s he
gave a series of talks a couple of which
were um connected with new Tendencies
conferences um in which he sort of
argued for how a revolution of
automation of a of artificial thought of
symbiosis with machines of Mastery of
communications would ushered in by the
arrival of the
computer um my my old friend Arman mados
wrote about this um this writer saying
that he made some factually correct
observations about progress in Computing
and combined that with a polemic against
artm and artists complaining that
computer art would render traditional
art practices Obsolete and his evidence
of this was something like Ken Nolton
lean Harmon's mural or AKA computer nude
which was um described in Mindy's talk
yesterday it was kind of a simple raster
image based on an image of the dancer
Deborah
um in Mosa's Theory human perception and
Aesthetics could be made part of a
cybernetic model of the world that was
mathematically and statistically
describable automation would allow each
person to enjoy at home their own
mass-produced and unique artwork um that
resulted from a creative Union of human
and
machine there were numerous artists at
the time that pursued this line of
thinking one was Vladimir bonachic um
who's shown on the right a more famous
example would be Charles sur's uh and
James schaer's hummingbird um this is an
example of a work that um made use of a
kind of series of pre-selected images
that were recombined in different ways
and manipulated in different ways
following um a kind of set of formulaic
instructions so not AI in the sense that
we think of it today but certainly a
image made by
Machine Harold Cohen's often described
as the kind of as like one of the sort
of pioneers of AI and art as well um
similarly he was trying to program into
the computer formal rules associated
with image making and formalism body
parts things like that and the and these
would be
recombined um he was interested in what
are the minimum conditions under which a
set of marks functions as an image um so
these are all different examples early
on of like artists pursuing this idea of
imag making machine um I wanted to share
one further example which I I think
really illustrates the fact that as much
as this was a revolutionary kind of idea
um the computer was also assimilated
into artistic practice in a very organic
way this is a studio visit with yis
Samia halabi um who this was just this
past summer um this is her working on
her current current rig which is a 1995
Toshiba the Mac the monitor doesn't work
so she's using an external Mac monitor
it has
sounds watching this old one did you
draw those lines and they're stored in
memory or they're generated randomly no
generated right now and look it it's
covered by scribbles but you can still
see the purple I'll tell you why but you
say that that line will come back again
eventually I don't know when could be a
100,000 later
okay okay I might not have enough time
for that no you won't nor do
I um but let me explain beautiful I'm
ping away
um let's use uh number seven and clear
the screen maybe we get something like
pink pink please Okay the reason is
complicated so that's custom software
that Samia wrote obviously in the past
few years we've seen a really burgeoning
scene of artists using software to make
images of different
kinds perhaps a more contemporary
example is Maya man's fake it till you
make it which came out with Casey ree's
feral file um so this sat satz as
influencer Wellness culture it's a
example of a textual image uh each
motivational phrase is uniquely
generated and not so easily discernible
when shared amongst this Instagram help
self-help
landscape all words and phrases are
pulled manually from preexisting text
graphics on Instagram and then collage
together at random so at a glance it
looks quite believable but when you read
it be disrespectful to one another
perhaps it starts to reveal some of the
holes or absurdity in this thing and
then Maya as ma describes it it's
wrapped in this sugar cookie aesthetic
world of girl power positive vibes boss
babe kind of
media so many of the works that are
associated with this idea of making an
image of having an instrumental go in
mind with goal in mind with a computer a
lot of them are are done using
traditional computational Methods at
least historically that's been the case
um when you start introducing what we
consider AI into the mix unpredictable
things happen and part of that has to do
with the fact that AI is a signal
processor in many
ways um signal processing has its own
Rich history in art
making so signals come from a lot of
sources and artists like to use this
variation of inputs in their work often
with some sort of commentary so here is
a just a still of Stein and Woody vulka
who were pioneers of video art styo was
also a violinist so in 1978 violin power
the movements of the bow Alters the
image and they also use the scan
processor to modulate the sound waves to
build up spatial forms
[Music]
so instead of trying to create an image
signal processing was often trying to
move into using mediaart material in
ways that got around any kind of image
at all um using the the pure signal as a
material and um in the history of neural
networks which is the technology in
which most AI is based that actually
began as an analog signal processing
kind of approach um there was an
engineer that went to a performance by
David tutor in the ' 80s um David tutor
was a composer associated with John Cage
and who used methods of um random
composition in his work and he noticed
that many of the analog processes that
David tutor was using were really
similar to the device that he was trying
to work on uh which was a neural network
um analog processing system and the
advantage I guess of this sort of setup
is that within a kind of traditional
signal processing workflow things go
from point A to point B
and they might emerge in somewhat
unexpected ways but you kind of know the
path that it's going to take whereas a
neural network sets up parallel
processing where things can kind of move
through a system in unpredictable ways
leading to unpredictable results and
this is the kind of I think we have like
a little audio clip of a digital
Recreation of the neuronet synthesizer
that was based on um David tutor's work
and um and made in collaboration with
him it's a Bop
[Applause]
this idea of manipulating signal in AI
is still present today um artists use it
in trying to think about how to work
musically with AI which um is something
that's come up in um rym 7 on seven
program this past year Well Stefan was
that kind of made me aware of you know
this problem of time you know it's
spoken with because I'm interested in
real time uh interaction with AI but AI
is limited in a traditional sense of
like structural hierarchical
compositional like traditional like how
like a group of musicians playing
together even jamming together or
playing a composition it's not there yet
however if you are talking about the
abstract if you're talking about
atmospheric ambient elements it can
totally handle that but you can free it
from the designation of having to
emulate human thought and processing in
real you said it first yeah and so this
is their performance that they made
using um various AI manipulation Tools
in semi-real time to do a live
composition
one of the exciting filters would take
like a sack an input and turn it into a
different instrument or someone's voice
that was something they really enjoyed
playing
with and here we have a project by
Margaret jarmin who is a pioneering game
artist so this is a project called zero
actions in the Savings Bank from 2022
she calls it a do nothing performance
game trying to also show that this idea
of doing nothing can also be a sort of
input so here we have two performers
sleeping in a bank during lunchtime and
their brain waves are actually us as
inputs to create this visual behind them
she kind of uses this as like an anti-
capitalist
Parable what I really like about that
example is that it sort of illustrates
that signals which artists have often
treated as this kind of like completely
abstract material come from a social
context and they have meaning in a you
know in different ways so the kinds of
signals he use are important which kind
of leads us into our next conversation
about AI as a bad
copy um you know Ted Chung wrote like
yet another article that made everyone
mad about Ai and art but this is the
previous one uh where he made kind of a
good point I thought which is sort of
that you could think of AI as sort of an
interface to a large data set it's a way
of retrieving certain things from
training data um by prompting in a
certain way you can retrieve certain
statistical patterns or or recurring
motifs and so in that way he was think
he was said maybe we can think of AI as
a compression technology also that title
was kind of supposed to be an insult or
criticism but jpegs are also cool so it
yeah can be interpreted in a positive
way too yeah Mindy and I definitely were
excited by the Brer jpeg
idea and we put together some blurry
jpeg examples starting with casy r's
compressed Cinema
oops I think that maybe
[Music]
my this is an example of a work made by
Casey um training an AI model on um
numerous examples from the history of
Cinema and kind of like drawing a you
know sort of motifs that might feel
recognizable but also I think casting
attention on the visual artifacts that
you know 2018 circuit era AI would kind
of add to um to the material it
processed um there's of course so this
is of course like a long-standing idea
in art the idea of the blurry jpeg as
being a an an artifact that carries with
it a social history and also a history
of the technologies that produce it um
on the right is an image by Rosen mman
who's done a lot of work on um glitch
art and thinking about you know how when
errors what we think of as errors arrive
in an image those are actually just you
know products of a kind of technical
apparatus that also are part of our
image
culture and these copies don't also
don't only have to be image-based
um these copying also replicates biases
omissions and the social order and
artists draw attention to this so here
we have a collage by Linda Duna also
came out with FAL file and here as part
of the invisible exhibition they focus
on black artists who are with AI so this
collage chz Joe is a Brute Force attempt
at remembrance coursing mid journey to
conjure up a sense of place and time
that it does not know well using
references it barely understands end
quote just like her grandmother's
grocery store that you see rendered
here I'll play this trailer first then
we can talk about
it where are you from
I don't know where I'm
from part of me is from Saudi Arabia
where I was
born but another part of me is from the
US where I immigrated to and have been
living since
then
calibrating where are you
from Parton me feels like I'm not from
one specific
place that I'm fragmented from different
pieces
is and I'm in
way so many of the folks in this room
might be familiar with this question
where are you from and the political
load behind that here filmmaker NAFA
jair this translates to where am I from
um they use an AI assistant to basically
learn more about her Heritage and only
to discover the limitations and
stereotypes ingrained in machine
learning some Concepts that we're very
familiar with here
so as you might have seen in the video
her head SC scarf is tagged as a tent a
poncho and apron and Scholars like Joy
bamini has also investigated the biases
in machine learning realizing these
facial recognition systems don't
recognize darker skin tones and things
of this
nature this is a piece that came out
about a month ago by Sarah friend called
prompt
baby it's actually quite interesting
because it really questions whose image
belongs to whom so in this case she used
an AI generator to model an image of
herself she sold 69 editions and which
sold out in 16 seconds and then the
buyer could prompt give email her one
prompt if she approved it she would
render an image if not she would
negotiate that prompt with the buyer so
all of this was really a co-creation
between herself the model and the
customer so yes this project is about
how AI can be used to generate the human
body in correct or incorrect ways but it
really surfaces the question of
ownership so bad copies generally
attempts to remove human stewardship
from the equation whereas friend's
models a very manual process of
co-creating with the buyers as an active
foil to this um as of now she's only
received 12 prompts the rest of them are
just sitting black on a grid she guesses
that they're sitting in a secondary
Marketplace but it's actually kind of
interesting to think there's there
frenzy of buying a thing only to not
actually want to render the image itself
yeah but I think that is you know
important that idea of the bad copy it's
bad not because it's like low Fidelity
but because it's divorced from its
provenance and um the way that AI can be
used to do that is certainly one of its
um one of its potentially dangerous
aspects
um the next prompt is AI as
hallucination and you we're all familiar
with the concept of hallucination which
is when AI systems like surprisingly
make things up
[Music]
um interestingly I think many artists
have kind of remarked on how um AI
models of the past few years have gotten
more and more um sort of
professionalized that they're less
likely to do the kinds of strange and
disruptive things that artists used to
find so generative about them um and
that actually now they're having to work
harder to make AI models hallucinate
which tends to be a way of getting them
to kind of to create uh the kind of
really unusual images that that they
want that they want to work with or
unusual texts and um it's sort of
interesting because I showed examples of
the neural network synthesizer neural
net synthesizer um but the way that AI
works now is um really different than
that because there are so many levels of
um and Kyle McDonald and I were just
corresponding about this but there's so
many levels of kind of uh governance
built in that allows the AI to have a
very directed output uh which is not
kind of like the inherent nature I guess
of of AI as a as a approach to to
computational problems um but I wanted
to start in this section by like
thinking back for a second to um Abraham
moles who I mentioned earlier um Abraham
moles was really interested in the
problem of how to measure originality in
fact he was so interested in the problem
that he decided to write a letter to the
situationists about this Pro about this
I don't know some of you might be
familiar with the postwar French group
that likes to um disrupt the flows of
everyday life and he suggested um a
range of different ways of um measuring
like what could be an interesting or
valuable situation um they're kind of
off the- wall and some of them are
really revealing in interesting ways uh
he talks about how it's no longer
inconceivable that human beings change
sex over the course of their life and
new situations initially of an
individual character and then a social
and are perfectly conceivable it seems
to me this would be one of the roles of
the situationist international to
explore them so here we have the
cybernetician trying to measure
creativity and in my opinion he actually
came up with a very good
suggestion but K dor responded very
negatively to the entire letter claiming
that moles didn't understand the first
thing uh about the situation is
international he actually told
moles um knowing the human exper
appearance which your programmers have
cloaked you and one can appreciate that
you dream of the production of women
with n series of breasts prediction
which has come true thanks to artist
arvita byrom this this
year um but yeah like I think that this
idea of like how to measure creativity
is something that you know obviously
prompted this very viscerally negative
reaction in deor but actually could be
an interesting way to like open out um
different approaches to problems of of
um I guess Visual Arts
and and cultural regeneration um
this is something that artists have been
trying to like work with in AI since the
start um trying to build in like how you
know how can we make models not just
reproduce What they've been trained but
you know introduce um departures from
them um at 7 on S which is ry's our Tech
Conference in 2014 we had aasin and Kai
Alman work on this
issue maybe you lost the audio of this
one and plugs that into Google similar
image search so in real time you can
watch these morphing images that extract
every 100 frames you can also watch your
set of Google image content update in
real time so here here's an example here
is the seated set of images that comes
from uh The Archives of one of uh kar's
projects um we'll scroll up just for a
little bit so you can
see as you can see the the Google
similar image is also morph over time it
starts out very abstract and uh very
formal and then moves into strange
unpredictable uh specialized series of
content so you can
see so they were really worrying about
this problem of how algorithmic culture
was really causing us to fall into
similar patterns that there were there
was autocomplete it was making culture
more predictable and they were
interested in trying to tweak their
model to make it to things that were
less predictable um my feeling is that
on the one hand this is the opposite
direction that we see the AI industry
moving which is toward more predictable
outcomes for models more
replication more uh reproduction of
potentially negative things from the
past and I think it's interesting to try
to recover that sort of spirit of
hallucination of that I think is you
know I think part of what can make AI um
most interesting um of course
Hallucination is only a metaphor it's
but it's one that's persistent
throughout the history of the recent
history of AI it came up with the
arrival of deep dream which I think uh
kind of originated at gray area first
broke into the public eye here um back
in 2015 when Engineers from Google
including Mike Tao were trying to
visualize what was happening inside an
AI system by having it over interpret
images and finding images of dogs and
eyeballs within
Landscapes um and it's sort of almost uh
difficult to look at diffusion models
and not think of it as a kind of
hallucination these images are trained
on or these models are trained on um
images with static overlaid and they're
and they're trained to remove the static
to find the image and then they're given
images which are just static and told to
find a picture of a toy or a picture of
a flower so they're you know trained
eventually to find images where there is
you know in our kind of classic
understanding no image at
all so let's bring back more
hallucination and I think we're going to
get it because as a society we're
heading towards something like
society-wide model collapse
so maybe another prompt that's a nice
container is one of that of AI as
companion um throughout this conference
already we've heard a lot of references
to Eliza and assistants such as these uh
but often when we're creating an
assistant they're mirrored back at us in
a very humanlike form and we have some
examples of those here as
well so Eliza which has been mentioned
earlier the 1966 project by Joseph
weisen bomb it actually wanted people
body award in
2022 but as one of the first chat Bots
it was kind of considered a roarian
psychotherapist it used a pretty simple
form of mirroring questions back to you
and actually became a pretty fruitful
therapy device
um
oh we have a
trailer just a little more
what can I do for you let's e dream
together I like
it just make sure that you don't
download yourself into your own
[Music]
research so when do I get to see them
you can't see them it's its own Theory I
want to see for myself what it's like in
the jungle
oh I love shoing where'd you get that
outfit I just wanted to look like
everyone else I see on the net remember
no one's supposed to know you're
real no discussion of relationships with
virtual agents would be complete without
without a call out to Lyn hman Lon who
was here yesterday and just thinking
about the incredibly compelling kinds of
connections that form between humans and
virtual agents um it's almost like we
kind of can't avoid forming these
emotional connections um even when we
know that we're dealing with something
that's you know merely a technological
apparatus also mentioned this past
Festival was this work by Stephanie
Dinkins here she's speaking with beina
48 um
which at the time was described as the
world's most advanced social robot Bina
48 stands for break through intelligence
via neural architecture 48 extra flops
per second um it's an intelligent
computer built by trasm and it's said to
be capable of independent thought and
emotion it was also modeled after beina
Aspen the Creator's wife and through
conversations with Bina 48 dinkin
explored transhumanism and the bounds of
human consciousness I I think what's
really beautiful about this series is
Stephanie dinkin really tries to address
complex questions and see what is
mirrored back or revealed through the
answers that beina 48 exposes they talk
about who Bea's people are how they
think about race how they are able to
comment on these larger social orders I
recently went to an event at the Lincoln
Center where they actually had Bea 48 on
a pedestal in front of its owner um and
instead of this we're we're live
streaming but okay um they they have
they basically asked be 48 to beat box
um and it said beats and boots and cats
boots and cats maybe 20 times and it was
such an offensive use of this technology
not only it's like racial code as well
so I think that being conscious of it
not only as an entertainment device but
also as some sort of critical commentary
is maybe a helpful way moving forward
and from another work from another
speaker tonight Lorden McCarthy so this
work is called someone it's a maybe a
human version of the Amazon
Alexa instead of having this robot or
assistant situated in our homes she
Lauren actually had various volunteers
rig up their homes but whenever they
asked this assistant something it would
go to a warehouse where humans were
observing these cameras and completing
those commands turning on your lights or
acting as your smart
home yeah I think um it's really
interesting like how these relationships
with virtual agents of different
kinds reveal so much about like our
understanding of ourselves and like how
you know societally we treat the other
the chatbot becomes this kind of other
um entity in culture um which I think
that brings out like all of the problema
occurrence in um in situations like the
one you described um but I think one of
the things that's also at stake is that
a lot of the agents that we deal with
are so much work is going into trying to
get them to seem like human companions
to seem like they can be you know
compatible with our expectations of
social others and maybe this is sort of
limiting our ability to you know connect
with uh types of intelligence that might
not be fully the same as us but
certainly um might have something else
to contribute if we could kind of
broaden out following maybe someone like
James Bridal our understanding of what
intelligence is um this is something
that we that came up also in seven on
seven um sort of through this like sem
um your behavior this performance that
Miriam moon created uh with spots robot
dog from Boston Dynamics who's kind of a
very visible symbol of um of U technolog
power in today's society
turning the performance was really about
trying to relate to this um to this
machine um but one of the things that's
sort of interesting about it is that
it's not presented as an AI device
Boston Dynamics really want it to be
considered um not AI but athletic
intelligence that's at stake in it that
it's like a different model of
understanding and knowing the world that
the dog is like or that the robot is um
is accumul night and so try to
understand what that relationship is
like and and all and the power dynamics
that play in it um came across in
Miriam's
performance which brings us to our final
prompt AI is troll initially we called
it usurper but we thought troll maybe
was more suin yeah trolls are the as as
Tracy Jee Rosenthal has put it they're
the self declared other to
Communications
Technologies in folklore they live under
bridges inter ing circulation in
flow maybe a very old example of this is
the Mechanical Turk uh people probably
are familiar with this the automaton
chess player from 1770 so it was toured
as an intelligent chess playing machine
but inside as you can see there's
actually a man who is playing chess um
this term Mechanical Turk has now become
shorthand for the human labor that's
often rendered invisible in these
technological tools so Amazon Mechanical
Turk followed suit from this maybe not
so critically but definitely referring
to this history and was obviously met
with a lot of criticism for being quite
exploitative uh here we have a work by
Hannah bear uh so on
the this side we have Hannah bear in a
selfie and she inputs this image into a
porn generator and she's received this
image on the left you can see that it's
blurred and that's not because the
generator is bad but because it's behind
a pay wall which she refused to pay so
not only is Her Image even if she put it
in the generator anyone could have input
at anyone else's image she also no
longer has the rights to this
pornographic image even though you can
already start to see some of the errors
in this blurred form so around the bust
area you still see some of the black
from her t-shirt even though in theory
it's supposed to be a pornographic
nude it reminds me of the quote by
tisana teranova which basically talks
about what happens when these devices
are pulled into late capitalistic
societies so when we have in theory
these tools should be creating a lot of
excess time and freedom for the rest of
us but in a society like ours it's just
co-opted back into the system and in
creating more labor and this surplus of
time and labor is then actually co-opted
by the few and there's more work
developed for the people who are
actually perpetu or performing that
labor this might be our last example
this is our last artwork and you know I
think that the previous slide and
Lauren's piece um there's this really
interesting conversation about AI in the
history of portraiture like AI as this
portrait of us the portrait is now
trolling us um and we're having to like
understand a new form of you know the
definitions of the human in relation to
like non-human less or other than human
Technologies and and
intelligences um what could be
productive about that and I think um
that's kind of where we arrive to at the
end of the presentation and the answer
is going to be supplied in this video
clip from Christopher Clinton Thomas
which
we'll well the the idea of the
individual upon which human rights is
based um derives from K's definition of
the universal human subject distinct
from
nature and uh maybe the problem is not
something that can be fixed within human
rights or international law um maybe the
problem
is is with the category of human
[Music]
well I feel like all artists need to be
authentic everybody demands authenticity
and every artist believes that they are
for real I mean I believe that I'm
genuine in what I'm doing but that's the
Paradox because so does everyone else
you know everyone believes that even if
the whole industry is corrupt at least
you know I'm true to myself so if
believing in your own authenticity is
the basic price of admission then
authenticity itself becomes the most
contested object of synthesis and behind
your likes and follows and your friends
and meals and possessions and vacations
behind the ranking algorithms and social
graphs
maybe simulating simulated behavior is
the only way we have of being for
real the tables took me every secret
always wasting my
in
a magazine understand didn't
know
all else been a lonely
places all I need is to see your face
they'll tell you
chain I think I am
finally we have three seconds left on
the clock one
second I just has one closing
thought um I think if we
could take one thing out of this AI area
it might be the end of the category of
human as an Enlightenment subject that
we've been saddled with all of these
centuries um and I think you know our
effort here was really about trying to
like bring out these different
discourses and stories that people are
telling about AI right now locate them
in longer trajectories and you know
maybe make space for people to play
Within and and unpack take them
further thank you so much much